# A .NET symphony with C\#

Preface

Nowadays, it's easier than in the 70s and 80s to get into programming and try to solve issues that you may have at home org at work. Instead of having a limited number of books that are our holy grail on programming and having to go to a computer labs to try and code something, we can do all of this in the comfort of our homes. We have access to an incredibly rich amount of information thanks to the internet with _Youtube \_videos, books on \_Amazon_, blogs and so on. There aren't just 1 or 2 programming languages, as we've progress in time, more and more languages were created. All have there reasons of existence, but it's hard for the neophyte to understand the exact tools to use in order to efficiently solve the problem at hand. Not only the programming language can impact the learning curve, but also the technical environment chosen in order to create and develop the software.

Syntax isn't everything when someone's programming. In fact, syntax are just like the alphabet that one learns in the beginning in order to be able to form the words and the sentences that the computer and the other developers will have to read to understand the train of thought. To organize those trains of thought, we have programming _paradigms. \_A paradigm is a way of doing things. It's that simple. Some paradigms are focused on executing actions in a sequential manner, others have a way to organize data into templates that will their definitions and their behaviours.  Those templates are call "objects" and that's the mindset of \_object oriented programming._ Objects can represent anything from either a physical or virtual space such as a person that will have a name, an age, a weight,  be able to speak languages and run to a certain speed for instance. This is a popular paradigm that is being taught in school and widely used in the industry.

